The Lord heard your words when you spoke to me, and the Lord said to me: I have heard the words of this people, which they have spoken to you; they are right in all that they have spoken. - Deuteronomy 5:28

You must follow exactly the path that the Lord your God has commanded you, so that you may live, and that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land that you are to possess. - Deuteronomy 5:33

Not one of all the good promises that the Lord had made to the house of Israel had failed; all came to pass. - Joshua 21:45

O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever. - 1 Chronicles 16:34

The Lord is with you, while you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you abandon him, he will abandon you. - 2 Chronicles 15:2

For almsgiving delivers from death and keeps you from going into the Darkness. Indeed, almsgiving, for all who practice it, is an excellent offering in the presence of the Most High. - Tobit 4:10-11

If you turn to him with all your heart and with all your soul, to do what is true before him, then he will turn to you and will no longer hide his face from you. - Tobit 13:6

See, God is exalted in his power; who is a teacher like him? - Job 36:22

Happy are those who do not follow the advice of the wicked, or take the path that sinners tread, or sit in the seat of scoffers; - Psalm 1:1

Serve the Lord with fear, with trembling - Psalm 2:11

In the Lord I take refuge; how can you say to me, Flee like a bird to the mountains; - Psalm 11:1

I love you, O Lord, my strength. - Psalm 18:1

May he grant you your heart’s desire, and fulfill all your plans. - Psalm 20:4

You have given him his heart’s desire, and have not withheld the request of his lips. - Psalm 21:2

To you they cried, and were saved; in you they trusted, and were not put to shame. - Psalm 22:5

For dominion belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. - Psalm 22:28

The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. - Psalm 23:1

He restores my soul. He leads me in right paths, for his name’s sake. - Psalm 23:3

Even though I walk through the darkest valley, I fear no evil; for you are with me; your rod and your staff— they comfort me. - Psalm 23:4

The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold[a] of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? - Psalm 27:1

For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent; he will set me high on a rock. - Psalm 27:5

Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me! - Psalm 27:7

If my father and mother forsake me, the Lord will take me up. - Psalm 27:10

Wait for the Lord; be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the Lord! - Psalm 27:14

The Lord is my strength and my shield; in him my heart trusts; so I am helped, and my heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to him. - Psalm 28:7

May the Lord give strength to his people! May the Lord bless his people with peace! - Psalm 29:11

Our soul waits for the Lord; he is our help and shield. - Psalm 33:20

Look to him, and be radiant; so your faces shall never be ashamed. - Psalm 34:5

O taste and see that the Lord is good; happy are those who take refuge in him. - Psalm 34:8

The Lord is near to the brokenhearted, and saves the crushed in spirit. - Psalm 34:18

All my bones shall say, “O Lord, who is like you? You deliver the weak from those too strong for them, the weak and needy from those who despoil them.” - Psalm 35:10

Do not fret because of the wicked; do not be envious of wrongdoers, for they will soon fade like the grass, and wither like the green herb. - Psalm 37:1-2

Be still before the Lord, and wait patiently for him; do not fret over those who prosper in their way, over those who carry out evil devices. - Psalm 37:7

Depart from evil, and do good; so you shall abide forever. For the Lord loves justice; he will not forsake his faithful ones. The righteous shall be kept safe forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off. - Psalm 37:27-28

The Lord helps them and rescues them; he rescues them from the wicked, and saves them, because they take refuge in him. - Psalm 37:40

Happy are those who consider the poor; the Lord delivers them in the day of trouble. - Psalm 41:1

Call on me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me.” - Psalm 50:15

Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. - Psalm 51:7

Create in me a clean heart, O God, and put a new and right spirit within me. - Psalm 51:10

Deliver me from bloodshed, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your deliverance. - Psalm 51:14

The sacrifice acceptable to God is a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. - Psalm 51:17

But I call upon God, and the Lord will save me. - Psalm 55:16

Cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you; he will never permit the righteous to be moved. - Psalm 55:22

You have kept count of my tossings; put my tears in your bottle. Are they not in your record? - Psalm 56:8

My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast. I will sing and make melody. - Psalm 57:7

O God, you are my God, I seek you, my soul thirsts for you; my flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no water. - Psalm 63:1

But truly God has listened; he has given heed to the words of my prayer. - Psalm 66:19

I will praise the name of God with a song; I will magnify him with thanksgiving. This will please the Lord more than an ox or a bull with horns and hoofs. - Psalm 69:30-31

In you, O Lord, I take refuge; let me never be put to shame. - Psalm 71:1

My lips will shout for joy when I sing praises to you; my soul also, which you have rescued. - Psalm 71:23

For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than live in the tents of wickedness. - Psalm 84:10

Because you have made the Lord your refuge, the Most High your dwelling place, no evil shall befall you, no scourge come near your tent. - Psalm 91:9-10

When they call to me, I will answer them; I will be with them in trouble, I will rescue them and honor them. - Psalm 91:15

He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see? - Psalm 94:9

The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. - Psalm 103:8

As a father has compassion for his children, so the Lord has compassion for those who fear him. - Psalm 103:13

The Lord protects the simple; when I was brought low, he saved me. - Psalm 116:6

Happy are those who keep his decrees, who seek him with their whole heart, - Psalm 119:2

I find my delight in your commandments, because I love them. - Psalm 119:47

Before I was humbled I went astray, but now I keep your word. - Psalm 119:67

The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. - Psalm 119:72

Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. - Psalm 119:10

Uphold me according to your promise, that I may live, and let me not be put to shame in my hope. - Psalm 119:116

Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is your custom toward those who love your name. - Psalm 119:132

My eyes shed streams of tears because your law is not kept. - Psalm 119:136

Great is your mercy, O Lord; give me life according to your justice. - Psalm 119:156

My soul keeps your decrees; I love them exceedingly. - Psalm 119:167

I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope; my soul waits for the Lord more than those who watch for the morning, - Psalm 130:5-6

For I know that the Lord is great; our Lord is above all gods. - Psalm 135:5

Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve me against the wrath of my enemies; you stretch out your hand, and your right hand delivers me. - Psalm 138:7

Even before a word is on my tongue, O Lord, you know it completely. - Psalm 139:4

Search me, O God, and know my heart; test me and know my thoughts. See if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. - Psalm 139:23-24

Set a guard over my mouth, O Lord; keep watch over the door of my lips. - Psalm 141:3

Answer me quickly, O Lord; my spirit fails. Do not hide your face from me, or I shall be like those who go down to the Pit. - Psalm 143:7

The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. - Psalm 145:18

My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and all flesh will bless his holy name forever and ever. - Psalm 145:21

His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the speed of a runner; but the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love. - Psalm 147:10-11

Let everything that breathes praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! - Psalm 150:6

Hear, my child, your father’s instruction, and do not reject your mother’s teaching; - Proverbs 1:8

Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not rely on your own insight. - Proverbs 3:5

Do not be wise in your own eyes; fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. - Proverbs 3:7

My child, do not despise the Lord’s discipline or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves the one he loves, as a father the son in whom he delights. - Proverbs 3:11-12

My child, keep your father’s commandment, and do not forsake your mother’s teaching. - Proverbs 6:20

But he who commits adultery has no sense; he who does it destroys himself. - Proverbs 6:32

for wisdom is better than jewels, and all that you may desire cannot compare with her. - Proverbs 8:11

A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. - Proverbs 15:1

Some friends play at friendship but a true friend sticks closer than one’s nearest kin. - Proverbs 18:24

Whoever is kind to the poor lends to the Lord, and will be repaid in full. - Proverbs 19:17

The horse is made ready for the day of battle, but the victory belongs to the Lord. - Proverbs 21:31

Just as you do not know how the breath comes to the bones in the mother’s womb, so you do not know the work of God, who makes everything. - Ecclesiastes 11:5

But the souls of the righteous are in the hand of God, and no torment will ever touch them. - Wisdom 3:1

Those who trust in him will understand truth, and the faithful will abide with him in love, because grace and mercy are upon his holy ones, and he watches over his elect. - Wisdom 3:9

Therefore set your desire on my words; long for them, and you will be instructed. - Wisdom 6:11

Wisdom is radiant and unfading, and she is easily discerned by those who love her, and is found by those who seek her. - Wisdom 6:12

The beginning of wisdom is the most sincere desire for instruction, and concern for instruction is love of her, - Wisdom 6:17

Therefore I prayed, and understanding was given me; I called on God, and the spirit of wisdom came to me. - Wisdom 7:7

If you desire wisdom, keep the commandments, and the Lord will lavish her upon you. - Sirach 1:26

My child, when you come to serve the Lord, prepare yourself for testing. - Sirach 2:1

Consider the generations of old and see: has anyone trusted in the Lord and been disappointed? Or has anyone persevered in the fear of the Lord and been forsaken? Or has anyone called upon him and been neglected? - Sirach 2:10

Those who honor their father atone for sins, and those who respect their mother are like those who lay up treasure. - Sirach 3:3-4

Those who respect their father will have long life, and those who honor their mother obey the Lord; - Sirach 3:6

For a father’s blessing strengthens the houses of the children, but a mother’s curse uproots their foundations. - Sirach 3:9

For kindness to a father will not be forgotten, and will be credited to you against your sins; - Sirach 3:14

As water extinguishes a blazing fire, so almsgiving atones for sin. - Sirach 3:30

Do not be ashamed to confess your sins, and do not try to stop the current of a river. - Sirach 4:26

Do not say, “I sinned, yet what has happened to me?” for the Lord is slow to anger. - Sirach 5:4

Do not depend on dishonest wealth, for it will not benefit you on the day of calamity. - Sirach 5:8

Faithful friends are a sturdy shelter: whoever finds one has found a treasure. - Sirach 6:14

Faithful friends are beyond price; no amount can balance their worth. - Sirach 6:15

Faithful friends are life-saving medicine; and those who fear the Lord will find them. - Sirach 6:16

Reflect on the statutes of the Lord, and meditate at all times on his commandments. It is he who will give insight to your mind, and your desire for wisdom will be granted. - Sirach 6:37

Do no evil, and evil will never overtake you. Stay away from wrong, and it will turn away from you. - Sirach 7:1-2

Commit no offense against the public, and do not disgrace yourself among the people. - Sirach 7:7

Do not commit a sin twice; not even for one will you go unpunished. - Sirach 7:8

Do not grow weary when you pray; do not neglect to give alms. - Sirach 7:10

Stretch out your hand to the poor, so that your blessing may be complete. - Sirach 7:32

Do not hesitate to visit the sick, because for such deeds you will be loved. - Sirach 7:35

In all you do, remember the end of your life, and then you will never sin. - Sirach 7:36

Do not abandon old friends, for new ones cannot equal them. A new friend is like new wine; when it has aged, you can drink it with pleasure. - Sirach 9:10

Do not envy the success of sinners, for you do not know what their end will be like. - Sirach 9:11

Do not delight in what pleases the ungodly; remember that they will not be held guiltless all their lives. - Sirach 9:12

Let the righteous be your dinner companions, and let your glory be in the fear of the Lord. - Sirach 9:16

Do not answer before you listen, and do not interrupt when another is speaking. - Sirach 11:8

Do not argue about a matter that does not concern you, and do not sit with sinners when they judge a case. - Sirach 11:9

Do not wonder at the works of a sinner, but trust in the Lord and keep at your job; for it is easy in the sight of the Lord to make the poor rich suddenly, in an instant. - Sirach 11:21

Do not say, “It was the Lord’s doing that I fell away”; for he does not do what he hates. - Sirach 15:11

He has placed before you fire and water; stretch out your hand for whichever you choose. - Sirach 15:16

Listen to me, my child, and acquire knowledge, and pay close attention to my words. - Sirach 16:24

He who lives forever created the whole universe; - Sirach 18:1

My child, do not mix reproach with your good deeds, or spoil your gift by harsh words. - Sirach 18:15

Does not the dew give relief from the scorching heat? So a word is better than a gift. - Sirach 18:16

Indeed, does not a word surpass a good gift? Both are to be found in a gracious person. - Sirach 18:17

Before falling ill, humble yourself; and when you have sinned, repent. - Sirach 18:21

Do not follow your base desires, but restrain your appetites. If you allow your soul to take pleasure in base desire, it will make you the laughingstock of your enemies. - Sirach 18:30-31

Wine and women lead intelligent men astray, and the man who consorts with prostitutes is reckless. - Sirach 19:2

One who rejoices in wickedness will be condemned, but one who hates gossip has less evil. - Sirach 19:5-6

Like an arrow stuck in a person’s thigh, so is gossip inside a fool. - Sirach 19:12

Have you sinned, my child? Do so no more, but ask forgiveness for your past sins. - Sirach 21:1

Whoever builds his house with other people’s money is like one who gathers stones for his burial mound. - Sirach 21:8

The way of sinners is paved with smooth stones, but at its end is the pit of Hades. - Sirach 21:10

Whoever obeys me will not be put to shame, and those who work with me will not sin.” - Sirach 24:22

A good wife is a great blessing; she will be granted among the blessings of the man who fears the Lord. - Sirach 26:3

Forgive your neighbor the wrong he has done, and then your sins will be pardoned when you pray. - Sirach 28:2

If you blow on a spark, it will glow; if you spit on it, it will be put out; yet both come out of your mouth. - Sirach 28:12

As you fence in your property with thorns, so make a door and a bolt for your mouth. As you lock up your silver and gold, so make balances and scales for your words. - Sirach 28:24-25

Help the poor for the commandment’s sake, and in their need do not send them away empty-handed. - Sirach 29:9

Lay up your treasure according to the commandments of the Most High, and it will profit you more than gold. - Sirach 29:11

Do not be overconfident on a smooth road, - Sirach 32:21

Put him to work, in order that he may not be idle, for idleness teaches much evil. - Sirach 33:28-29

The spirit of those who fear the Lord will live, for their hope is in him who saves them. - Sirach 34:14-15

Those who fear the Lord will not be timid, or play the coward, for he is their hope. - Sirach 34:16

Happy is the soul that fears the Lord! - Sirach 34:17

The one who returns a kindness offers choice flour, and one who gives alms sacrifices a thank offering. - Sirach 35:3-4

For the Lord is the one who repays, and he will repay you sevenfold. - Sirach 35:13

My child, when you are ill, do not delay, but pray to the Lord, and he will heal you. - Sirach 38:9

Then give the physician his place, for the Lord created him; do not let him leave you, for you need him. There may come a time when recovery lies in the hands of physicians, - Sirach 38:12-13

but kindness is like a garden of blessings, and almsgiving endures forever. - Sirach 40:17

Do not be ashamed of the law of the Most High and his covenant, and of rendering judgment to acquit the ungodly; - Sirach 42:2

And now bless the God of all, who everywhere works great wonders, who fosters our growth from birth, and deals with us according to his mercy. - Sirach 50:22

May he give us gladness of heart, and may there be peace in our days in Israel, as in the days of old. - Sirach 50:23

May he entrust to us his mercy, and may he deliver us in our days! - Sirach 50:24

May your soul rejoice in God’s mercy, and may you never be ashamed to praise him. - Sirach 51:29

Do your work in good time, and in his own time God will give you your reward. - Sirach 51:30

Therefore in the east give glory to the Lord; in the coastlands of the sea glorify the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. - Isaiah 24:15

O Lord, you are my God; I will exalt you, I will praise your name; for you have done wonderful things, plans formed of old, faithful and sure. - Isaiah 25:1

Then the Lord God will wipe away the tears from all faces, and the disgrace of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. - Isaiah 25:8

Therefore the Lord waits to be gracious to you; therefore he will rise up to show mercy to you. For the Lord is a God of justice; blessed are all those who wait for him. - Isaiah 30:18

but those who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. - Isaiah 40:31

do not fear, for I am with you, do not be afraid, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my victorious right hand. - Isaiah 41:10

But now thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: Do not fear, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name, you are mine. - Isaiah 43:1

When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. - Isaiah 43:2

Because you are precious in my sight, and honored, and I love you, I give people in return for you, nations in exchange for your life. - Isaiah 43:4

I, I am the Lord, and besides me there is no savior. - Isaiah 43:11

I, I am He who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. - Isaiah 43:25

Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts: I am the first and I am the last; besides me there is no god. - Isaiah 44:6

I have swept away your transgressions like a cloud, and your sins like mist; return to me, for I have redeemed you. - Isaiah 44:22

For the sake of my servant Jacob, and Israel my chosen, I call you by your name, I surname you, though you do not know me. - Isaiah 45:4

I am the Lord, and there is no other; besides me there is no god. I arm you, though you do not know me, - Isaiah 45:5

even to your old age I am he, even when you turn gray I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear; I will carry and will save. - Isaiah 46:4

O that you had paid attention to my commandments! Then your prosperity would have been like a river, and your success like the waves of the sea; - Isaiah 48:18

Listen to me, O coastlands, pay attention, you peoples from far away! The Lord called me before I was born, while I was in my mother’s womb he named me. - Isaiah 49:1

Can a woman forget her nursing child, or show no compassion for the child of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you. - Isaiah 49:15

See, I have inscribed you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me. - Isaiah 49:16

But he was wounded for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the punishment that made us whole, and by his bruises we are healed. - Isaiah 53:5

All your children shall be taught by the Lord, and great shall be the prosperity of your children. - Isaiah 54:13

Seek the Lord while he may be found, call upon him while he is near; - Isaiah 55:6

See, the Lord’s hand is not too short to save, nor his ear too dull to hear. Rather, your iniquities have been barriers between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. - Isaiah 59:1-2

Before they call I will answer, while they are yet speaking I will hear. - Isaiah 65:24

“Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations.” - Jeremiah 1:5

Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved; for you are my praise. - Jeremiah 17:14

For surely I know the plans I have for you, says the Lord, plans for your welfare and not for harm, to give you a future with hope. - Jeremiah 29:11

Call to me and I will answer you, and will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known. - Jeremiah 33:3

Cry aloud to the Lord! O wall of daughter Zion! Let tears stream down like a torrent day and night! Give yourself no rest, your eyes no respite! - Lamentations 2:18

Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the watches! Pour out your heart like water before the presence of the Lord! Lift your hands to him for the lives of your children, who faint for hunger at the head of every street. - Lamentations 2:19

The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases, his mercies never come to an end; - Lamentations 3:22

It is good for one to bear the yoke in youth, - Lamentations 3:27

Take courage, my children, cry to God, and he will deliver you from the power and hand of the enemy. - Baruch 4:21

For my angel is with you, and he is watching over your lives. - Baruch 6:7

and I will never again hide my face from them, when I pour out my spirit upon the house of Israel, says the Lord God. - Ezekiel 39:29

On that day I will answer, says the Lord, I will answer the heavens and they shall answer the earth; - Hosea 2:21

Return to the Lord, your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and relents from punishing. - Joel 2:13

He will again have compassion upon us; he will tread our iniquities under foot. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. - Micah 7:19

God, the Lord, is my strength; he makes my feet like the feet of a deer, and makes me tread upon the heights. - Habakkuk 3:19

Bring the full tithe into the storehouse, so that there may be food in my house, and thus put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts; see if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you an overflowing blessing. - Malachi 3:10

I will rebuke the locust for you, so that it will not destroy the produce of your soil; and your vine in the field shall not be barren, says the Lord of hosts. - Malachi 3:11

